Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with Tracy Lee. She's a
Google developer expert and a
JavaScript developer, and you're a
serial entrepreneur. You've done all
kinds of things. Yes. Hi,
nice to meet you. Nice
to see you again anyways.
Cool. Thanks for, for hanging
out. You're also the co
founder of this dot labs.
And what I think is
interesting about it is that
it's a, it's an agency,
but it's framework agnostic, but
then if I go and
look at your medium, it
looks to me like you're
trying all the JavaScript frameworks.
You're like framework agnostic framework
nondenominational. Yes. I love playing
around with all the different
frameworks and libraries and just
sort of seeing the differences
in how, how people think
about things and also the
similarities. I think it's amazing
how we in the JavaScript
world learn from each other
all the time. And I'm
just watching again, you know,
things get repeated and thinking,
well, did we need to
do that again? Or, wow,
I'm really glad these people
learn from these people. Do
you think that it's a
little overwhelming? I mean, I'm
a, I mean, I'm a
quasi JavaScript person. I wouldn't
say I'm a front end.
I'm kind of a full
stack, but you know, people
email me all the time
and they say, should I
learn angular or react like
either? Or, and it seems
to come down to an
amount of time, like how
much time do I have
available? Should people be saying
things like, should I learn
this or that? Or should
they just learn them all
all or learn none of
them. I think everybody has
different opinions based on what
they read. So they might
read something that react is
faster because X, and they
might decide to go down
the react path for that
reason. Or they might read
something about how angular is
more for enterprise. So they
want to go that way,
or this is supported because
of this or this has
this license. And I think
that, you know, at the
end of the day, if
you just test out a
few things, like, I don't,
I don't remember if it
was you and I talking
about this or somebody else,
but I remember speaking to
somebody about how, you know,
learning technology in general is
just about testing out a
bunch of different things. And
then once you feel you're
comfortable in one thing, then
just sort of go all
in on it for a
few months. So really, you
know, whether you choose react
or whether you choose angular
or Vue or Ember, any
of the other ones it's
really about, do you feel
comfortable with this syntax? Does
it give you what you
need? Do you need to
get, do you feel productive
in it? Right. Like, I
think in the beginning for,
for me, because I came
from Ember and angular when
I was starting to get
into react, JSX didn't really
make any sense to me.
And so it really took
me a little second to,
to get familiar with it
and get comfortable with it.
It seems like people are
afraid that they're going to
start down a path, maybe
try it out. Like you
said, then commit their company
or their product to it,
and then hit some wall.
And the wall is unspecified,
right. We don't know. It's
just a wall that we
can't see and that's why
it's scary. And then we'll
find that, wow, well, it
worked great when I was
fooling around, but then when
I decided to do something,
I don't know, put a
million things in a data
grid. It all fell apart.
And now the whole company
goes under. Like, I know
that that's like a, a
silly and a, and a
silly example, but I honestly
think people are just afraid
that they're going to paint
themselves in a corner. Should
they be, I totally agree.
Cause I hear that all
the time as well. And
I don't think so. I
mean, I think that, you
know, I see, I see
regrets on both sides. So
if I see sometimes I
see people going down the
react path and then realizing
they really wished they had
a little bit more convention
around it. Or, you know,
they're really trying to scale
this out, across larger teams
and then they run into
some problems or I see
angular people saying like, Oh,
I really wish I had,
you know, a smaller X.
Right. But again, those are
just opinions. Those are just
one people's opinions and nothing's
right or wrong. Like if
you ask some people, angular
is actually faster than react.
If you ask some people
react as faster than, than
angular. But I think what
it really comes down to
is the technical expertise. When
I was building my first
startup, I remember not coding,
not knowing how to code
and thinking, okay, do I
go rails or Python or
PHP? And like, who knows?
Right. So I went down
the PHP path and you
know, that didn't work out.
But then I, I ended
up going down and rewriting
my entire app in Python,
but it was because I
had the technical leadership. And
again, that's what really matters.
If you have a technical
leadership in a specific framework
or library, then you're going
to be able to maneuver
and do the things you
need to do. Right. I
think where people suffer is
they get to a point
and then they don't have
the expertise to get them
to, you know, point B
let's say after they go
start down a path. No,
that's interesting. And almost a
little bit controversial. It's it's
like saying, I, I, you
know, I learned this skill.
I learned a little bit
of angular, but I really
don't understand what it's doing
underneath, or I really don't
understand what, what, what JavaScript
is doing. And then I
hit a wall. The question
is, is that wall an
angular technical wall? Or is
it a personal wall that
I hit when I really
had no idea what I
was doing in the first
place? I think a lot
of it is just not
knowing how or what you're
doing. A lot of the
times, like there is a,
there is recently some conversations
on Twitter about how, you
know, stop just installing, you
know, different little stop MPM,
installing everything, to try to
solve your problem, try to
dig a little bit deeper
into the framework or library
that you're using because there's
probably a solution there. So
I think a lot of
the times when you hit
that frustration, you look externally
or look for a reason
or think, Oh, I need
to redo it because I've
heard that I w I
might have, you know, run
into this problem or things
like that. But a lot
of the times, if you
just, you know, if you
just dig a little bit
deeper or if you ask
somebody, I mean, I think
this is the importance of
having mentors as well. You
can usually figure out how
to untangle yourself from whatever
mess you've, you've gotten yourself
into or whatever snag you're
hitting. Interesting. I recently had
a Chris Nandy, Andy, on
the show talking about just
everyone should just use the
vanilla Java script and basically
pushed JavaScript as far as
you can, before you feel
the need to pull in
another framework. Yikes. That would
be so painful for me.
I would cry. So where
do you find the balance?
Because I feel like you're
advocating for both. Like, you
need to understand what's going
on, but there's value in
frameworks. But at the same
time, I got an email
just yesterday from someone who
was, was basically scolded at
work because they wanted to
do some, some cross Blatt,
some cross HDP call and
they brought in jQuery and
their boss was like, you
don't need to use jQuery
anymore for that. That's just
a simple thing it's built
in now. I think there's
a lot of us that
are still stuck in that
world where if you want
to go and grab a
node, you know, a note
of the Dom you'll do
it with, you know, with
the dollar sign and open
a parentheses as opposed to
doing the native JavaScript stuff.
Yeah. So I think, well,
I think the power of
frameworks is that you can
get started immediately and you
can get productive immediately. So
I'm, I'm totally, you know,
I don't think hand rolling
things is a great idea.
And the reason I don't
think it's a great idea
is because people have already
solved the, these, this problem,
whatever problem we have managing
state like routing, you know,
whatever they've already done it
for you. And you know,
a lot of these CLS
these days, right. Just handle
your entire build system and
everything like that. So you
don't have to figure out
like some custom configuration and
you just don't, you know,
you can actually spend writing
code versus trying to set
up your, your environment and
thing, like things like that.
And I think this is
why I think this is
why people, you know, coming
from, let's say the.net world
are actually much more comfortable
in places. Like, let's say
angular because you have the
CLI, you know, I mean,
I think most people and
I haven't done.net, but this
is what I've heard, you
know, like everything is just
sort of set up for
you already. Right. So that's
sort of like the same
thing with angular. Everything's set
up for you already. You
can just get productive immediately
for his having to figure
out how to, like, let's
say configure a pack or
something like that. Yeah. I
think that it's very prescriptive,
like the way that I
think the, one of the
reasons that I think rails,
you know, gained prominence, was
it wasn't like here's a
million ways to do this.
It was like, here's the
way to do this, do
it like that. Yeah. Yes,
absolutely. And that's kind of
what I like. And I
think that if you are,
let's say a more seasoned
developer and sort of have
your own ideas and ways
of how you want to
do things. Or if you're
the type of person who
just really needs to know
what's going on, like you're
not comfortable about, you know,
doing like a and G
start or something like that,
or sorry, NG serve from,
from your, from your terminal
and serving on an application
or something like that. Then
I think that a great
way to go, for example,
this is why a lot
of people, I feel like
choose react, right? Because you
have, let's say five different
ways. You can do CSS,
you have all these different
ways. You can do state
management, you know, you can
configure everything you want. So,
so, and I think that's
why people sort of are
drawn to that. People, people
who really like writing code
and really like building and
creating, you know, like it's
sort of the geeky developer
sexiness right now, like, Oh,
I want to write code
and I get to write
code with reacts. So let
me do that. So have
you, have you seen that
at all? I mean, I
don't know if I put
it that way, but I
understand where you're coming from.
I've noticed on looking at
your medium, that you, like,
not only do you explain,
explore lots of different things,
but you're also really into
it seems components and web
components, and then there's this
new angular component dev kit.
Can you explain that to
me? Yeah. Components of kit
as actually just, it was
just released by the material,
the angular material team. So
material design components, the angular
material is material, material, design
components, specifically built for angular
by the angular team Material
design. If I can interrupt
you, is the, make it
look like this Google prescription
for like how, how things
should be pretty it's like
their bootstrap. Yes, exactly. Yeah.
And a lot of people
in the industry these days
follow the material design guidelines
in terms of how they
think about style guides and
things like that. So they,
so angular material decided to
move the components to a
component dev kit. And the
reason they decided to do
this is because they realized
that, Hey, people writing angular,
you know, probably a few
of them want to actually
use their own styling. So
they, they took all the
it's, it's basically components without
the material design on top
of them. So you have
things like accessibility and, you
know, you can have your
date picker and things like
that, and you can slap
your own style on it.
It was just released a
few months ago, so they're
still working on it, but
a lot of people are
starting to use it in
production and testing it out.
If you just look at
the number of downloads per
week on MPM, it's a,
it's growing pretty fast. I
see. So it's, it's meant
to make the hard stuff
easier, but also not getting
your way. If you want
to make things look the
way you want. Like, I
was looking at the, the
data table, these CDK or
component dev kit table, and
they specifically call it out
as an unopinionated data table.
Yes. Yeah. And I think
that's actually really beautiful. Cause
you look at a bunch
of these different companies who
are build these custom components,
right? Like Kendo UI is
a good example. And it's
going to be really intriguing
how this changes the industry,
right? Because Kendo, UI built
these specific components for angular
where you can slop on
your own styles for it
and things like that. But
all of a sudden the
angular team is actually giving
that to you. So like
is Kendo UI, for example,
going to start building their
components on top of the
component of kit, like what
is that going to look
like? I'm really curious. Yeah.
I think that's really interesting
point. A good example is
that the angular material stuff
or MD hyphen table is
the material design data table.
It sits on top of
this dev kit tables. So
they're there, I'm not just
releasing it for people like
Kendo they've they're actually using
it themselves. They're eating their
own dog food as they
say. Yes. Yes, yes. Hmm.
Interesting. So do you think
though that in the future,
in some post 2017 future,
we're going to be able
to write apps with no
code and it'll be drag
and drop of web components
and things like that. Do
you think we're moving there?
I think that there is,
I think this is kind
of what the Google Chrome
team really hopes to do
in the future. I shouldn't,
I probably shouldn't speak for
them, but No, but you
know, British, this is opinions,
right? I mean, I can
say you're a Google dev
expert, which means you don't
work for Google, but they've,
it's like a Microsoft MVP.
They've given you this title.
Cause you know what you're
talking about, but you don't
speak for Google right. As
I work for Microsoft, but
this podcast is my own.
And so our opinions are
our own to be clear.
Yes, yes, yes, absolutely. But
you know the whole idea
that now it's so easy
to build out components, like,
like for example, a lot
of companies these days, right?
If you just look at
polymer and what they were
doing before, there's been a
lot of improvements, but you
can basically go to some
of these polymer sites and
you can just drag and
drop in a Google map.
Right. And then it's just
going to use the Google
maps API and you can
sort of configure this website
by yourself and then, you
know, supposedly it just works.
So I think a lot
of things that we sort
of have to do now,
we're not going to have
to do later. And a
web development is going to
become very different. You know,
like I only started coding
about two years ago. Right.
So I sort of have
had the luxury of working
with different frameworks and libraries
and have a lot of
stuff handed to me. Right.
But I'm sure those of
you who've been programming longer,
sort of see what we
can, what we have now
in today's world. But imagine
if that's 10 times easier,
it's going to be, you
know, we're all going to
be out of jobs or
something. I don't know. Well,
it's funny, it's funny because
speaking from the, in the
historical context, if you think
about things like polymer and
by the way, for long
time listeners, we had Monica
Dinkle sq on the show
show number 499. This was
in October of 2015. So
basically exactly two years ago,
talking about polymer and chrom
fast forward to today. And
I'll put this in the
show notes. If you go
to polymer, hyphen designer.app, spot.com,
it's a polymer grid that
you can basically build an
app in. It looks a
lot like visual basic three,
except it's in the browser,
which means that we did,
we were, we were onto
something, you know, back in
the day when we were
doing things like visual, basic
dragging buttons around and, and
having third party maps and,
and controls and stuff. But
now we're doing it on
an open platform that could
be rendered theoretically by any
browser. Yeah. Monica is awesome.
By the way, I've never
heard her name pronounced. So
it was really cool to
hear you say that. I,
well, I could only hope
that I got it right.
We'll see. That's that's how
she said it two years
ago. So maybe I got
it right. We'll see. So
polymer is hoping to sit
as hoping to sit in
that world. What w that
jQuery did jQuery said, Hmm.
Things are hard. Things are
complicated that will fix a
bunch of the, the quirks
of JavaScript. Now, you know,
polymeric is kind of like
jQuery for web components. It
sits on top of web
components and makes it super,
super easy. Yeah. I, I'm
a polymer. I think polymer
three dot Oh, is coming
out soon. And I think
the thing about web components
in general or polymer, I
think the polymer team is
sort of trying to, while
we're talking about polymer, but
what we're really trying to
talk about is web components,
right? And polymers sort of
the way to help us
get to web components today
while we're building for web
components and while the browser
standards are catching up. So
I think a lot of
people's hesitation these days is
backwards compatibility and things like
that. And, and whatever. But
if you start working with
Palmer components and you really
sort of start getting educated
in the space, a lot
of large companies are actually
adopting it. So a thing
I see every week is
companies saying, okay, you know,
we have a billion apps.
We need to manage all
these applications. And, you know,
we're sick of repeating code.
And, you know, that might
be a date picker that
might be a table that
might be the standard style
of their header. Right. And
so they're doing things like
trying to create component libraries
that they can have as
sort of one centralized database,
and then share that across
all the different teams. So
you see companies doing this
using react, using angular, using
polymer, probably using a view
as well. I knew, I
know view is definitely catching
steam and also with Amber,
right. Amber, you have the
add on library. So it's
a little bit easier to
do things like that View
or it's V U E
right. Seemed to come out
of nowhere last year. So
yeah, Yeah, yeah. I, you
know, I looked at it
and there was this article
that came out about the
number of downloads, surpassing anybody,
any framework or library. And
so you look at that
data and you think, okay,
what is this? Right? But
the reason view is so
popular is because it's so
fast. And you know, for
us in the, you know,
in North America and maybe
even Western Europe, we don't
really have the concerns of
crappy internet. Right. And, and
it doesn't cost us much.
A lot of us have
unlimited data plans. But when
you look at India and
China, right, every time you
refresh a page, every time
you do an app update,
they're actually, you're actually having
to pay for it. So
imagine having to spend, you
know, $3 every time you
updated an application, or every
time you have to refresh
a page, it costs you
a dollar. So with those
types of things, the, the,
the smallness per smallest is
probably not the right word.
But the smallness of view
is what's really, really, really
appealing to these developers. And
the earlier this year, I,
I thought to myself, okay,
we'll see what happens. Like
a lot of my friends
were saying, Oh, why don't
we use view? And I
was thinking, well, let's a
little bit, and see, but
now, as I'm talking to
people, and as I'm talking
to our clients and larger
companies, there's a lot of
companies using view in production.
So I think it's a
time to hop on the
bandwagon. People really like it.
So, Yeah. And now of
course I said, it felt
like a, it came out
and just in the last
year or two as with
all good things, you know,
everyone is an overnight success
from one person's perspective. But
view has been around since
2013, 2014. It just feels
like the, the hockey stick
hit in the last year
or two. And now everyone's
talking about it. And to
your point about the size
of pages back in 2015,
there was an article about
the size of the verge.
You know, the verge.com. It
was 9.5 megabytes with 263
HTTP requests. And a hundred
of those were JavaScript. That's
intense. You think it'd be
all images, right? There was
only a megabyte of images,
but seven megabytes of JavaScript.
And that's really our fault.
Isn't it? That is, I
don't even know what to
say about that, but I
blame myself. You know, I
wish I, I have the
luxury myself of being able
to play around with technology
and make fun applications and
figure out how things work
and teach people how easy
it is to get started.
And that's what I love
to do, but I don't
get to go into the
deep, deep, dark depths of
like, Oh my God, you
know, it takes X amount
of time for this page
to paint or look how
many repaints or there's a
leak in, you know, there's
a leak in IIE or,
you know, Why is that
though? Is that because your
clients are in the States
and they don't worry about
bandwidth? Or do you have
someone who does that for
you? Yeah, it's more because
I don't actually handle a
lot of the coding of
our clients. I more do
development and play when I'm
speaking at different conferences I
go to and things like
that. So I know enough
to, to, to get started
and to tell people why,
and to put people in
the right direction, but I
don't actually spend a lot
of time actually writing the
code. So you said that
you've only been coding for
a couple of years, and
it sounds like you have
transitioned a little bit from
writing code into more kind
of community organizing. I think,
you know, actually it, it,
I th I keep going
back and forth. So I
started off community organizing in
the JavaScript world. And, you
know, then I decided, well,
JavaScript, okay. I should probably
learn how to do this
JavaScript thing. And then, so
I started coding and I
fell in love with it.
And then I spent all
my time coding. And then
I realized that, you know,
maybe I should be a
little more productive with my
life. And I decided to
start doing things I'm really
good at, which is a
community organizing and helping put
people in the right direction
and connecting people and things
like that. So it's sort
of half and half these
days. I really wish I
could spend more time in
code, but I think we
all do unless we're being
paid full time to write,
like by the line, I
think a lot of us
find ourselves in meetings about
design. And then we write
code at night. I was
talking to my buddy Damian,
who works on asp.net. And
we were trying to figure
out how many hours a
week we actually had to
code. It seems like all
of us are doing it
at night when the kids
are asleep. Yeah. It's kind
of depressing. Like lately I've
been having to do really
stupid, like home things like,
Oh, I have to buy
a couch or, you know,
just the things that drives
me and saying that I
have to do, or like
I have to trim the
trees outside and it pisses
me off. Cause I'm not
spending my time coding. So
it's very frustrating. So you
said that you've been coding
for two years, but it
sounds to me like you
already know a lot more
about Java script than I
do. And I've been coding
for many years is for
people who are listening, who
might be, you know, coding
10, 15 years, but not
deep into JavaScript, how do
they get so kind of
literate in such a short
amount of time in the
JavaScript world? Cause I think
we're all looking for that
moment to jump in and,
and hopefully head in the
right direction. I think, you
know, when people, if, if
people have been in the
industry for quite some time,
the thing I hear is
I hate Java script and
probably because it was a
little bit more painful back
in the day, but in
the past few years as
come so, so, so far,
and it is just so,
so easy to get started
these days. And, you know,
I don't think there's any
right or wrong way. I
don't, I personally don't think
that, you know, you should
just write vanilla Java script
and tell, you know, the
language and then you should
jump into a framework because
then you'll understand what the
framework or library is doing
for you. I think you
should value the fact that
that frameworks and libraries help
you get started and make
your life a lot easier
so that you can actually
do something and accomplish something.
Right. So, you know, angular
has angular CLI. And so
it's really easy to generate
components, different things like that.
Very much convention over configuration,
like react is the same
way right now I'm playing
with a lot of native
script. So if you want
to jump in and write
mobile apps, native script has,
you know, I mean, there's
great plugins these days for
everything documentation's out there. So
have you done much TypeScript?
I love TypeScript. Yes, because
angular two and above uses
TypeScript and it's like my
favoritest thing ever. So you
use that, like when you
write your Java script, you're
writing more TypeScript than you
are writing like proper JavaScript
or I don't know. Yeah.
I mean, I guess I'm
Writing type script. I mean,
to me it's all one
and the same. Like I
can't sometimes again, because, because
my knowledge spans so far,
it's like, I can't distinguish
the difference between  and
TypeScript or JavaScript or angular
or, you know. Yeah. I
mean, everything is just like,
you get comfortable, you can
build something like that is
the most important thing. And
I think that's the most
gratifying thing. So I remember
taking a C plus plus
class and thinking, Oh my
gosh, why do I have
to spend all this time?
I spent three hours trying
to find a semi colon.
And it was so frustrating.
And so I didn't finish
the class, but when I
Really, that semi-colon kicked you
out of the class, I've
had semicolons like kick my
butt. And I've had semicolons
caused me to have people
come over to my desk
and stare with me. And
like, that's a $10,000 on
my calling. You're looking at,
cause we took us like
a month to find it,
but I've never had a
kick me out of a
course. Well, I wasn't all
that motivated to become a
computer science major. You know,
my parents, my both my
parents are computer science majors,
but I said, okay, I
tried it. This is not
fun. So I decided to
move on and do major
in business. But when I
started in JavaScript, I immediately
two weeks after learning HTML,
CSS, and a little bit
of Java script, I immediately
got on Amber and Ember
CLI. And what I was
able to do was build
an app immediately in, you
know, 10 hours. And so
the fact that I was
able to build an app
and then deploy it and
have a site that looks
good because I just used
material design. That is very,
very, very gratifying. Also the
life reload, where you can
see what's happening immediately and
you can see the changes
on the page. I think
that's what gets people really
excited. I also think that's
why it's really good for
kids to learn JavaScript, because
again, you immediately see your
changes. So it seems to
me like you would say,
this is the time to
get into JavaScript. Like if
you looked at it a
couple of years back and
you're like, Oh, JavaScript, you're
saying, no, totally. Now is
the time, Especially with a,
you know, node. I mean,
node is just such a
basic common sort of utility
these days for us. Right.
But it's on the service
side now. I mean, you're
seeing JavaScript everywhere. So you
might as well, it's funny
cause us JavaScript. I wouldn't
say that's exactly a ringing
endorsement you might as well.
Well, I think a lot
of the things that are
happening in these SES are
like, you know, I love
all frameworks and libraries, but
I would say that angular
since it's just very conventional
and it's something that, you
know, like for example, it
has typings because of TypeScript
and things like that. Backend
developers, for example, might just
find it a little bit
easier to get into angular.
Right. Cause it's going to
be an environment. Maybe they're
a little bit more comfortable
and familiar with. There's a
really great IDE for you.
I don't know. I mean,
just, you know, globally install,
angular, CLI generate a new
app, see what it scaffolds
up like code a few
things, deploy it on a
Firebase. And I mean, that
could be like a weekend
thing for you. Well, people
can check you out on
your website. It's a lady
LEED, L E E t.com.
Is that correct? Yes. And
they can also find you
on Twitter and check out
your medium where all the
different blog posts that we've
been talking about are located.
Yes. Thank you for having
me. Cool. Thanks so much.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.